
=head1 NAME

rwtypes - Read and Write basic types defined in "niff.h"

=over 4

=item *

NIFFIOReadBYTE()

=item *

NIFFIOReadCHAR()

=item *

NIFFIOReadSIGNEDBYTE()

=item *

NIFFIOReadSHORT()

=item *

NIFFIOReadLONG()

=item *

NIFFIOReadRATIONAL()

=item *

NIFFIOReadSTROFFSET()

=item *

NIFFIOReadFONTIDX()

=item *

NIFFIOWriteBYTE()

=item *

NIFFIOWriteCHAR()

=item *

NIFFIOWriteSIGNEDBYTE()

=item *

NIFFIOWriteSHORT()

=item *

NIFFIOWriteLONG()

=item *

NIFFIOWriteRATIONAL()

=item *

NIFFIOWriteSTROFFSET()

=item *

NIFFIOWriteFONTIDX()

=back

=head1 NIFFIOReadBYTE

Read an NIFF BYTE from a NIFFIOFile.

     RIFFIOSuccess
     NIFFIOReadBYTE(NIFFIOFile *pnf, BYTE *pbyte)


=head1 NIFFIOReadCHAR

Read a NIFF CHAR from a NIFFIOFile.

     RIFFIOSuccess
     NIFFIOReadCHAR(NIFFIOFile *pnf, CHAR *pchar)


=head1 NIFFIOReadSIGNEDBYTE

Read a NIFF SIGNEDBYTE from a NIFFIOFile.

     RIFFIOSuccess
     NIFFIOReadSIGNEDBYTE(NIFFIOFile *pnf, SIGNEDBYTE *sbp)


=head1 NIFFIOReadSHORT

Read a NIFF SHORT from a NIFFIOFile.

     RIFFIOSuccess
     NIFFIOReadSHORT(NIFFIOFile *pnf, SHORT *ssp)


=head1 NIFFIOReadLONG

Read a NIFF LONG from a NIFFIOFile.

     RIFFIOSuccess
     NIFFIOReadLONG(NIFFIOFile *pnf, LONG *slp)


=head1 NIFFIOReadRATIONAL

Read a NIFF RATIONAL from a NIFFIOFile.

     RIFFIOSuccess
     NIFFIOReadRATIONAL(NIFFIOFile *pnf, RATIONAL *prat)


=head1 NIFFIOReadSTROFFSET

Read a NIFF STROFFSET from a NIFFIOFile.

     RIFFIOSuccess
     NIFFIOReadSTROFFSET(NIFFIOFile *pnf, STROFFSET *pstroff)


=head1 NIFFIOReadFONTIDX

Read a NIFF FONTIDX from a NIFFIOFile.

     RIFFIOSuccess
     NIFFIOReadFONTIDX(NIFFIOFile *pnf, FONTIDX *pfidx)


=head1 NIFFIOWriteBYTE

Write a NIFF BYTE to a NIFFIOFile.

     RIFFIOSuccess
     NIFFIOWriteBYTE(NIFFIOFile *pnf, BYTE b)


=head1 NIFFIOWriteSIGNEDBYTE

Write a NIFF SIGNEDBYTE to a NIFFIOFile.

     RIFFIOSuccess
     NIFFIOWriteSIGNEDBYTE(NIFFIOFile *pnf, SIGNEDBYTE sb)


=head1 NIFFIOWriteSHORT

Write a NIFF SHORT to a NIFFIOfile.

     RIFFIOSuccess
     NIFFIOWriteSHORT(NIFFIOFile *pnf, SHORT ss)


=head1 NIFFIOWriteLONG

Write a NIFF LONG to a NIFFIOFile.

     RIFFIOSuccess
     NIFFIOWriteLONG(NIFFIOFile *pnf, LONG sl)


=head1 NIFFIOWriteRATIONAL

Write a NIFF RATIONAL to a NIFFIOFile.

     RIFFIOSuccess
     NIFFIOWriteRATIONAL(NIFFIOFile *pnf, RATIONAL rat)


=head1 NIFFIOWriteSTROFFSET

Write a NIFF STROFFSET to a NIFFIOFile.

     RIFFIOSuccess
     NIFFIOWriteSTROFFSET(NIFFIOFile *pnf, STROFFSET stroff)


=head1 NIFFIOWriteFONTIDX

Write a NIFF FONTIDX to a NIFFIOFile.

     RIFFIOSuccess
     NIFFIOWriteFONTIDX(NIFFIOFile *pnf, FONTIDX f)

