
=head1 NAME

snapshot - What is the state of the NIFF SDK?

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 4

=item *

VERSION

=item *

WHAT'S NEW

=item *

BUG FIXES

=item *

TODO

=back

I made some significant progress before I got 1.01 out so here is 1.02
instead. niffdump is _much_ improved.

=head1 VERSION

1.02

=head1 WHAT'S NEW

=over 4

=item *

Removed sample RIFF files

=item *

Reorganized NIFFSDK into RIFFIO, NIFFIO, and NIFF components.

=item *

Changed build system.

=item *

Autoconfiguration under UNIX

=item *

Everything under CVS

=item *

Documentation in text, man, pod, and HTML

=item *

A few simple regression tests.

=item *

Ran a few checks for memory leaks - looks good.

=item *

Replaced some functions added in 1.0 by Cindy Grande with similar ones.
NIFFIOFilePrepare() and NIFFIOFileWriteCLT().

=item *

NIFFIOStorageNewSTDC(), NIFFIOFileNewSTDC() for simple initialization.

=item *

NIFFIOStoreStbl(), NIFFIOStoreCLT(), NIFFIOStoreDefaultCLT() for
NIFFIOStorage operations on special objects.

=item *

NIFFIOStorage now OWNS its NIFFIOFile. Don't call NIFFIOFileDelete()!

=item *

Slightly modified niff.h

=item *

No more tabs in source

=item *

fcc.c: Created macro RIFFIO_FOURCC_MIN for string lengths that will
hold a FOURCC. Don't use the constant "5" anymore.

=item *

Added INFO chunks to NIFFIOCLTMakeDefaultEntries().

=item *

Improved niffdump considerably. Check it out! It decodes many more
chunks and a few tags.

=item *

niffio/names.c: functions to convert between NIFF Ids/enumerated types and
strings. (Still need many more)

=item *

niffio/clt.c: don't store length of default CLT array anymore, used sentinel.

=item *

niffio/clt.c: added RIFF INFO chunks to default chunk length table.

=back

=head1 BUG FIXES

=over 4

=item *

RIFFIOChunkStackPush() used wrong expression to check for a full stack.

=item *

STDCRIFFRead() had if statements without parenthesis

=item *

Made sure CPP line continuations had whitespace in front of them.

=back

=head1 TODO

=over 4

=item *

Find out what developers _really_ need this thing to do.

=item *

Steve might want a function that reads a String Table into an array
of strings. Sort of the inverse of NIFFIOStoreStbl().

=item *

Need code that writes standard, example  NIFF files for
regression tests.

=item *

Keep adding chunks and tags to niffdump.

=item *

Write a real user's guide.

=item *

Write more example code.

=item *

Implement more regression tests.

=item *

Automate memory leak checks.

=item *

Be explicit about what happens during parsing errors.

=item *

write functions to convert between NIFF enumerated types and strings.

=item *

niffdump should handle all niff objects

=item *

Add parser callback registration functions for RIFF INFO chunks.

=item *

niffdump should generate output in a standard format for a future
niff compiler (useful for more regression tests).

=item *

write a niff compiler (useful for regression tests). Syntax similar
to RIFF.
