.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH abcde 3 "riffio" "14/Jun/96" "RIFFIO Documentation"
.IX Title "abcde 3"
.UC
.IX Name "abcde - create a simple demo RIFF file"
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
.IX Header "NAME"
abcde \- create a simple demo RIFF file
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"
abcde
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"
This program creates a RIFF file with the following
structure. FRM1 is a form, CHKA is a single chunk, and LSTA is
a list containing chunks CHKB and CHKC.
.PP
.Vb 3
\&       FRMA --- CHKB
\&                LSTC - CHKD
\&                       CHKE
.Ve
.Vb 1
\&     
.Ve
We will use routines from the Standard C library, RIFFIO and STDCRIFF.
.PP
.Vb 11
\&     
\&     #include <stdio.h>
\&     #include "riffio.h"
\&     #include "stdcriff.h"
\&     
\&     extern void doerror(const char *strMessage);
\&     
\&     int
\&     main()
\&     {
\&     
.Ve
We need a Standard C FILE pointer to our new RIFF file.
.PP
.Vb 3
\&     
\&         FILE        *pFILEOut; /* The new RIFF file */  
\&         
.Ve
We also need an associated RIFFIOFile for RIFFIO file operations.
.PP
.Vb 3
\&     
\&         RIFFIOFile  *prf;      /* Also the new RIFF file */
\&     
.Ve
Chunk information is stored in RIFFIOChunk structures. There are
no \fIRIFFIOChunkNew()\fR or \fIRIFFIOChunkDelete()\fR routines; we can simply
define RIFFIOChunks.
.PP
We need three chunk variables because we have to keep
chunk information around until the chunk contents are finalized.
For example, LSTC cannot be finialized until CHKD and CHKE are written.
.PP
.Vb 5
\&     
\&         RIFFIOChunk chunkForm;  /* FRMA */
\&         RIFFIOChunk chunkList;  /* LSTC */
\&         RIFFIOChunk chunkChunk; /* CHKB, CHKD, CHKE */
\&     
.Ve
Open the Standard C library RIFF file for writing and
associate it with RIFFIOFile.
Make sure the file is opened in binary mode.
.PP
.Vb 14
\&     
\&         pFILEOut = fopen("abcde.rif", "wb");
\&         if (!pFILEOut)
\&             doerror("Can't open abcde.rif for writing");
\&         
\&         prf = RIFFIOFileNew();
\&         if (! prf)
\&             doerror("RIFFIOFileNew failed");
\&         
\&         if (! RIFFIOFileInit(prf, pFILEOut,
\&                              STDCRIFFRead, STDCRIFFWrite, 
\&                              STDCRIFFSeek, STDCRIFFTell))
\&             doerror("RIFFIOFileInit Failed");
\&     
.Ve
First we must create the form chunk. We do so by filling in the
form's chunk id (RIFF or RIFX),the form type (FRMA in our case),
and optionally the form's data size.  Because this example is so
simple, we could conceivably predict the size of the entire
form. Ordinarily that would be too difficult so we will leave
chunkForm.sizeData alone and let \fIRIFFIOChunkFinalize()\fR calculate it
later. Once the chunkForm's members are initialized we call
\fIRIFFIOChunkCreate()\fR to write the chunk's header.
.PP
.Vb 6
\&         chunkForm.fccId = RIFFIO_FOURCC_RIFF;
\&         chunkForm.fccType = RIFFIOMAKEFOURCC('F','R','M','A');
\&     
\&         if (! RIFFIOChunkCreate(prf, &chunkForm))
\&             doerror("Couldn't create form chunk");
\&     
.Ve
\fIRIFFIOChunkCreate()\fR fills in other, private, fields of <chunkForm> that
are used later by \fIRIFFIOChunkFinalize()\fR.
.PP
\fIRIFFIOChunkCreate()\fR leaves the RIFF file positioned at the start of
the new chunk's contents.  In this case we are poised to write the
first chunk of the form, CHKB.
.PP
Because CHKB is neither a form or a list we can ignore the fccType
member of the chunk. CHKB will be empty, so we can immediately call
\fIRIFFIOChunkFinalize()\fR to complete the chunk.
.PP
.Vb 9
\&         chunkChunk.fccId = RIFFIOMAKEFOURCC('C','H','K','B');
\&         chunkChunk.sizeData = 0;
\&         
\&         if (! RIFFIOChunkCreate(prf, &chunkChunk))
\&             doerror("Couldn't create chunk CHKB");
\&         
\&         if (! RIFFIOChunkFinalize(prf, &chunkChunk))
\&             doerror("Couldn't finalize chunk CHKB");
\&     
.Ve
\fIRIFFIOChunkFinalize()\fR updates CHKB's size in the RIFF file if necessary.
It then writes an NUL pad byte of the chunk has an odd size and leaves
the RIFF file positioned at the end of the chunk.
.PP
We can now start LSTC.
.PP
.Vb 6
\&             chunkList.fccId = RIFFIO_FOURCC_LIST;
\&             chunkList.fccType = RIFFIOMAKEFOURCC('L','S','T','C');
\&         
\&             if (! RIFFIOChunkCreate(prf, &chunkList))
\&                     doerror("Couldn't create chunk LSTC");
\&     
.Ve
We will reuse chunkChunk to write CHKD. CHKD will contain 18 bytes
of data so we will demonstrate filling in the sizeData member
(even though we really don't need to).
.PP
.Vb 11
\&         chunkChunk.fccId = RIFFIOMAKEFOURCC('C','H','K','D');
\&         chunkChunk.sizeData = 18; /* predict the chunk size */
\&     
\&         if (! RIFFIOChunkCreate(prf, &chunkChunk))
\&             doerror("Couldn't create chunk <CHKD>");
\&         
\&         RIFFIOWrite(prf, "This is CHKD data.", 18); 
\&         
\&         if (! RIFFIOChunkFinalize(prf, &chunkChunk))
\&             doerror("Couldn't finalize chunk <CHKD>");
\&         
.Ve
When we write CHKE we will let \fIRIFFIOChunkFinalize()\fR calculate the
correct size.
.PP
.Vb 11
\&         chunkChunk.fccId = RIFFIOMAKEFOURCC('C','H','K','E');
\&         chunkChunk.sizeData = 999; /* Wrong but will be fixed automatically */
\&     
\&         if (! RIFFIOChunkCreate(prf, &chunkChunk))
\&             doerror("Couldn't create chunk <CHKD>");
\&         
\&         RIFFIOWrite(prf, "This is CHKE data.", 18); 
\&         
\&         if (! RIFFIOChunkFinalize(prf, &chunkChunk))
\&             doerror("Couldn't finalize chunk <CHKD>");
\&     
.Ve
Here is the end of LSTC.
.PP
.Vb 3
\&         if (! RIFFIOChunkFinalize(prf, &chunkList))
\&             doerror("Couldn't finalize list <LSTC>");
\&     
.Ve
Here is the end of FRMA.
.PP
.Vb 3
\&         if (! RIFFIOChunkFinalize(prf, &chunkForm))
\&             doerror("Couldn't finalize form <FRMA>");
\&         
.Ve
We are done writing chunks. It is time to clean up.
.PP
.Vb 3
\&     
\&         RIFFIOFileDelete(prf);
\&     
.Ve
Even though we have deleted the RIFFIOFile we still haven't officially
closed the Standard C Libarary representation.
.PP
.Vb 7
\&     
\&         fclose(pFILEOut);                
\&     
\&         return 0;
\&     
\&     }
\&     
.Ve
Report an error and exit.
.PP
.Vb 6
\&     void
\&     doerror(const char *strMessage)
\&     {
\&             fprintf(stderr, "%s\en", strMessage);
\&             exit(1);
\&     }
.Ve

.rn }` ''
