
=head1 NAME

parse - Functions to create a new parser and parse a NIFF file.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 4

=item *

NIFFIOParserNew()

=item *

NIFFIOParserDelete()

=item *

NIFFIOParserSetTracing()

=item *

NIFFIOParserGetTracing()

=item *

NIFFIOParseFile()

=back

=head1 NIFFIOParserNew

Return a pointer to a new parser, or null on failure

     NIFFIOParser *
     NIFFIOParserNew(void)


=head1 NIFFIOParserDelete

Free the memory allocated to a parser.

     void
     NIFFIOParserDelete(NIFFIOParser *pparser)


=head1 NIFFIOParserSetTracing

Enable (or disable) built-in parser tracing

     void
     NIFFIOParserSetTracing(NIFFIOParser *pparser, int isTracing)


Parser tracing will be enabled according to the boolean value
of <isTracing>.

=head1 NIFFIOParserGetTracing

Return true if a parser has tracing enabled.

     int
     NIFFIOParserGetTracing(NIFFIOParser *pparser)


=head1 NIFFIOParseFile

Parse a NIFF file.

     RIFFIOSuccess
     NIFFIOParseFile(NIFFIOParser *pparser, 
                     NIFFIOFile *pnf, 
                     NIFFIOUserContext userctxIn,
                     NIFFIOUserContext *puserctxOut)


Performs a recursive descent scan of all the chunks and tags in a
NIFF file. Each chunk and tag that matches a registered parser callback
generates a callback as it is scanned.  Chunks and tags are processed
in the order they appear in the NIFF file.

=head2 ENTRY

=over 4

=item *

T <*pnf> must be positioned at the start of the NIFF Form.

=item *

T <usercntxIn> describes the top level "context".  It will be the
parent context of the Form chunk. It may be null.

=back

=head2 EXIT

T <*puserctxOut> will be filled in with the context returned by
the form callbacks.
If <puserctxOut> is null then it is ignored and won't be dereferenced.

=head2 RETURN

=over 4

=item *RIFFIO_OK

if the file parses without error,

=item *RIFFIO_FAIL

otherwise

=back

=head2 ERRORS

If any callback generates an error, then the NIFF object that corresponds
to that callback is skipped.  That means if a list's start callback fails,
none of the subchunks in the list will be scanned.  If a list's end callback
fails, NIFFIOParseFile will eventually return an error, but it is a
little late to do much else.

      

