
=head1 NAME

tags - tag creation and navigation routines

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=head2 Tag Creation

=over 4

=item *

NIFFIOTagCreate()

=item *

NIFFIOTagFinalize()

=back

=head2 Tag Navigation

=over 4

=item *

NIFFIOTagDescend()

=item *

NIFFIOTagAscend()

=back

=head1 NIFFIOTagCreate

Start a new tag in a NIFF file.

     RIFFIOSuccess
     NIFFIOTagCreate(NIFFIOFile *pnf, NIFFIOTag *ptag)


=head2 ENTRY

=over 4

=item *

T <ptag->tagid> must contain the tag ID of the new tag.

=item *

T <ptag->tagsizeData> will be written to the file but
does not need to have a correct value.

=back

=head2 EXIT

=over 4

=item *

Writes a new tag header to <*pnf>.

=item *

Marks the tag as "dirty" (means the data size may need updating).

=back

=head2 OBLIGATIONS

NIFFIOTagFinalize() must eventually be called with <*ptag>
to finish writing the tag.
If NIFFIOTagFinalize() determines that <ptag->tagsizeData> is correct
then it will not seek back in the file to correct it.

=head1 NIFFIOTagFinalize

Finish writing a tag to a NIFFIOFile.

     RIFFIOSuccess
     NIFFIOTagFinalize(NIFFIOFile *pnf, NIFFIOTag *ptag)


=head2 ENTRY

T <*ptag> must be the result of a call to NIFFIOTagCreate.

=head2 EXIT

=over 4

=item *

Updates the tag data size on the file and in <*ptag> (if necessary).

=item *

Writes a NUL pad byte (if necessary).

=item *

Leaves the file positioned at the end of the new tag.

=back

=head2 ERRORS

On failure, the file position is undefined.

=head1 NIFFIOTagDescend

Read a tag header from a RIFF file.

     RIFFIOSuccess
     NIFFIOTagDescend(NIFFIOFile *pnf, NIFFIOTag *ptag)


=head2 ENTRY

The file must be positioned at the start of a tag.

=head2 EXIT

=over 4

=item *

Leaves the file positioned after the tag's size field.

=item *

<ptag->tagid> and
<ptag->tagsizeData> are updated from the
tag's header.

=back

=head1 NIFFIOTagAscend

Position a NIFFIOFile after a specified tag.

     RIFFIOSuccess
     NIFFIOTagAscend(NIFFIOFile *pnf, NIFFIOTag *ptag)


=head2 ENTRY

T <*ptag> was returned by NIFFIOTagDescend.

=head2 EXIT

T <*pnf> is postioned at the end of <*ptag>

=head2 ERRORS

On failure, the file position is undefined.
