
=head1 NAME

table - Maintain a table of FOURCC/value pairs

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 4

=item *

RIFFIOFCCTableNew()

=item *

RIFFIOFCCTableDelete()

=item *

RIFFIOFCCTableMakeEntry()

=item *

RIFFIOFCCTableLookup()

=item *

RIFFIOFCCTableCount()

=item *

RIFFIOFCCTableCreateArray()

=item *

RIFFIOFCCTableFreeEntries()

=item *

RIFFIOFCCTableForEachEntry()

=item *

RIFFIOFCCTableDump()

=back

=head1 RIFFIOFCCTableNew

Return a newly created table.

=head2 | RIFFIOFCCTable *
| RIFFIOFCCTableNew(void)
OBLIGATIONS

Use RIFFIOFCCTableDelete to free the table.

=head2 RETURNS

The new table or null on failure.

=head1 RIFFIOFCCTableDelete

Free all memory allocated for a table.

     void
     RIFFIOFCCTableDelete(RIFFIOFCCTable *ptable)


=head2 WARNING

Orphans all table entry values if they happen to be pointers.

=head2 ENTRY

<*ptable> must have been created by RIFFIOFCCTableCreate.

=head1 RIFFIOFCCTableMakeEntry

Make a new entry in a table.

     RIFFIOSuccess
     RIFFIOFCCTableMakeEntry(RIFFIOFCCTable *ptable, RIFFIOFCCTableEntry newEntry)


Replaces any existing entry with the value of the new entry.

=head2 RETURN

Return the success status of the operation.

=head1 RIFFIOFCCTableLookup

Lookup a value in a RIFFIOFCCTable given a FOURCC.

     RIFFIOSuccess
     RIFFIOFCCTableLookup(RIFFIOFCCTable *ptable, RIFFIOFCCTableEntry *entryp)


=head1 RIFFIOFCCTableCount

Return the number of entries in a table

     unsigned
     RIFFIOFCCTableCount(RIFFIOFCCTable *ptable)


=head1 RIFFIOFCCTableCreateArray

Return a newly allocated array of all the entries in a table.

     RIFFIOFCCTableEntry *
     RIFFIOFCCTableCreateArray(RIFFIOFCCTable *ptable)


=head2 EXIT

The new array is NOT sorted in any particular order.

=head2 OBLIGATIONS

The new array must be freed by the caller.

=head1 RIFFIOFCCTableForEachEntry

Apply a function over every entry in a table.

     void
     RIFFIOFCCTableForEachEntry(RIFFIOFCCTable *ptable, void f(RIFFIOFCCTableEntry))


=head2 ENTRY

<f> must not modify, add or delete any entries

=head1 RIFFIOFCCTableDump

Print the contents of a RIFFIOFCCTable for debugging

     void
     RIFFIOFCCTableDump(FILE *fp, RIFFIOFCCTable *ptable)

