
=head1 NAME

chunks - create, navigate, and operate on chunks

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=head2 Chunk Creation

=over 4

=item *

RIFFIOChunkCreate()

=item *

RIFFIOChunkFinalize()

=back

=head2 Chunk Navigation

=over 4

=item *

RIFFIOChunkDescend()

=item *

RIFFIOChunkAscend()

=item *

RIFFIOChunkDataEnd()

=item *

RIFFIOChunkEnd()

=item *

RIFFIOChunkDataOffset()

=item *

RIFFIOChunkSeekData()

=back

=head2 Chunk Operations

=over 4

=item *

RIFFIOChunkIsList()

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head1 RIFFIOChunkCreate

Start a new chunk in a RIFF file.

     RIFFIOSuccess
     RIFFIOChunkCreate(RIFFIOFile *prf, RIFFIOChunk *pchunk) 


=head2 ENTRY

=over 4

=item *

pchunk->fccId provides the new chunk id.

=item *

pchunk->fccType must contain a type id for Lists and Forms and
is ignored otherwise.

=item *

pchunk->sizeData does not need to be correct.

=back

=head2 EXIT

=over 4

=item *

Writes a chunk header to *prf according to *pchunk.
RIFFIOChunkCreate() will write pchunk->sizeData to the file.

=item *

Leaves *prf positioned at the start of the new chunk's data,

=item *

If *pchunk is a form, then *prf is marked with the proper
byte order.

=back

=head2 OBLIGATIONS

=over 4

=item *

After writing the chunk contents, *pchunk
must be finished with RIFFIOChunkFinalize().

=item *

Don't change the <*pchunk> data members before calling
RIFFIOChunkFinalize().

=item *

If the pchunk->sizeData is correct when the chunk is finalized,
then RIFFIOChunkFinalize() will not update the chunk's size in
the file.

=back

=head2 ERRORS

On failure, the file position is undefined.

=head1 RIFFIOChunkFinalize

Finish writing a new chunk in a RIFF file.

     RIFFIOSuccess
     RIFFIOChunkFinalize(RIFFIOFile *prf, RIFFIOChunk *pchunk)


=head2 ENTRY

<*pchunk> was returned by RIFFIOChunkCreate

=head2 EXIT

=over 4

=item *

Updates the chunk size in the file and in <*pchunk> (if necessary).

=item *

Writes a NUL pad byte (if necessary).

=item *

Leaves the file positioned after the chunk.

=back

=head2 ERRORS

On failure, the file position is undefined.

=head1 RIFFIOChunkDescend

Read a chunk header from a RIFF file.

     RIFFIOSuccess
     RIFFIOChunkDescend(RIFFIOFile *prf, RIFFIOChunk *pchunk)


=head2 ENTRY

<*prf> must be positioned at the start of a chunk.

=head2 EXIT

=over 4

=item *

Leaves the file positioned at the start of the chunk's contents
(either the first subchunk of a LIST or a normal chunk's data).

=item *

If the chunk is a RIFF or RIFX form, then
marks the RIFFIOFile byte order accordingly.

=item *

<*pchunk> holds the id, size, and possibly the
list type of the newly read chunk.

=back

=head2 ERRORS

On failure the file position is undefined.

=head1 RIFFIOChunkAscend

Advance a RIFF file past a chunk.

     RIFFIOSuccess
     RIFFIOChunkAscend(RIFFIOFile *prf, const RIFFIOChunk *pchunk)


=head2 ENTRY

<*pchunk> was returned by either RIFFIOChunkDescend or
RIFFIOChunkFinalize.

=head2 EXIT

<*prf> is positioned at the end of <*pchunk>

=head2 ERRORS

On failure, the file position is undefined.

=head1 RIFFIOChunkDataOffset

Return the file position of a chunk's data (or list's first subchunk)

     RIFFIOOffset
     RIFFIOChunkDataOffset(const RIFFIOChunk *pchunk)


=head1 RIFFIOChunkSeekData

Seek to the start of a chunk's data or a list's contents

     RIFFIOSuccess
     RIFFIOChunkSeekData(RIFFIOFile *prf, const RIFFIOChunk *pchunk)


Note that this is different than RIFFIOChunkDescend() because
RIFFIOChunkSeekData() can be called regardless of the current
file postion.

=head2 ENTRY

<*prf> may be positioned anywhere.

=head2 EXIT

<*prf> is postioned at the start of a chunk's data or the first
subchunk of a list.

=head2 ERRORS

On error, the file postion is undefined.

=head1 RIFFIOChunkIsList

Return true if a chunk is a form or a list.

     int
     RIFFIOChunkIsList(const RIFFIOChunk *pchunk)


=head1 RIFFIOChunkDataEnd

Return true if a file is positioned at the end of a chunk's data.

     int
     RIFFIOChunkDataEnd(RIFFIOFile *prf, const RIFFIOChunk *pchunk)


The chunk data's end may be before any NUL pad byte.

=head2 ENTRY

<*pchunk> must be a "clean" chunk, returned by either
RIFFIOChunkDescend() or RIFFIOChunkFinalize().

=head1 RIFFIOChunkEnd

Return true if a RIFF file is positioned at the end of a chunk.

     int
     RIFFIOChunkEnd(RIFFIOFile *prf, const RIFFIOChunk *pchunk)


The chunk end is after any NUL pad byte.

=head2 ENTRY

<*pchunk> must be a "clean" chunk, returned by either
RIFFIOChunkDescend() or RIFFIOChunkFinalize().
