
=head1 NAME

rfile - RIFFIOFile routines

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 4

=item *

RIFFIOFileNew()

=item *

RIFFIOFileInit()

=item *

RIFFIOFileDelete()

=item *

RIFFIOFileGetFormType()

=item *

RIFFIORead()

=item *

RIFFIOWrite()

=item *

RIFFIOSeek()

=item *

RIFFIOTell()

=back

=head1 RIFFIOFileNew

Return a pointer to a new RIFFIOFile,
or null on failure

     RIFFIOFile *
     RIFFIOFileNew(void)


=head2 OBLIGATIONS

The file cannot be operated on until RIFFIOFileInit() is called.

=head1 RIFFIOFileInit

Provide a NIFFIOFile with a user-defined I/O callbacks.

     RIFFIOSuccess
     RIFFIOFileInit(RIFFIOFile *prf,
                    void *pvUserFile,
                    RIFFIOReader reader,
                    RIFFIOWriter writer,
                    RIFFIOSeeker seeker,
                    RIFFIOTeller teller)


RIFFFIOFileInit() should be called immediately after NIFFIOFileNew()

=head2 ENTRY

=over 4

=item *<prf>

is the RIFFIOFile that is being initialized.

=item *<pvUserFile>

points to a user representation of a file that will be passed to
user-defined reader, writer, seeker, and teller functions.

=item *<reader>,<writer>,<seeker>,<teller>

are user-defined functions that perform operations on <*pvUserFile>.

=back

=head1 RIFFIOFileDelete

Free the memory allocated to a RIFFIOFile.

     void
     RIFFIOFileDelete(RIFFIOFile *prf)


=head1 RIFFIOFileGetFormType

Return the form type (UNKNOWN, RIFF, or RIFX)
of a RIFFIOFile

     RIFFIOFormType 
     RIFFIOFileGetFormType(RIFFIOFile *prf)


The form type is unknown until the first form chunk of a RIFFIOFile
is descended into or created.

=head1 RIFFIORead

Read bytes from a RIFF file.

     long 
     RIFFIORead(RIFFIOFile *prf, void *pvBuffer, long nBytes)


=head2 ENTRY

T <*pvBuffer> must be allocated to hold <nBytes>.

=head2 EXIT

=over 4

=item *

Up to <nBytes> have been read from <*prf> into <*pvBuffer>.

=back

=head2 RETURN

=over 4

=item *

The number of bytes actually read,

=item *

0 on end of file,

=item *

-1 on error.

=back

=head1 RIFFIOWrite

Write bytes to a RIFF file.

     long 
     RIFFIOWrite(RIFFIOFile *prf, void *pvBuffer, long nBytes)


Write <nBytes> from <*pvBuffer> to <*prf>.

=head2 RETURN

The number of bytes actually written.

=head1 RIFFIOSeek

Seek to a location in a RIFF file.

     RIFFIOSuccess
     RIFFIOSeek(RIFFIOFile *prf, RIFFIOOffset offset, RIFFIOSeekOrigin origin)


Seek <offset> bytes relative to <origin>.

<origin> may be one of

RIFFIO_SEEK_SET:
beginning of file

RIFFIO_SEEK_CUR:
current file position

RIFFIO_SEEK_END:
end of file

=head2 ERRORS

On failure, the file position is undefined.

=head1 RIFFIOTell

Return the current RIFF file position.

     long
     RIFFIOTell(RIFFIOFile *prf)


A file's position is measured in bytes from the
beginning of the file.
